---
layout: distill
title:  Improving Image de-raining Models using Reference-guided Transformers
date: 2023-09-05
description: 
tags: machine_learning
categories: 
# thumbnail: 

authors:
  - name: Zihao Ye
    url: "ziiihooo.com"
    affiliations:
      name: EECS, QMUL, UK
  - name: Jaehoon Cho
    url: "https://jhcho90.github.io/"
    affiliations:
      name: Hyundai, Seoul, KR
  - name: Changjae Oh
    url: "http://eecs.qmul.ac.uk/~coh"
    affiliations:
      name: EECS, QMUL, UK

top:
  - name: Abstract
---

<script src="https://d3js.org/d3.v7.min.js"></script>

## Abstract

Image de-raining is a critical task in computer vision to improve visibility and enhance the robustness of outdoor vision systems. While recent advances in de-raining methods have achieved remarkable performance, the challenge remains to produce high-quality and visually pleasing de-rained results. In this paper, we present a reference-guided de-raining filter, a transformer module that enhances the de-raining results using a clean reference image as guidance. We leverage the capabilities of the proposed module to refine further the images de-rained by existing methods. We validate our method on four datasets and show that our module can improve the performance of existing prior-based, CNN-based, and transformer-based approaches.

## Method

<div class="fake-img l-page">
     {% include figure.html path="assets/img/derain_pipeline.png" zoomable=true %}
</div>

Overview of the proposed reference-guided transformers for de-raining enhancement. We obtain de-rained results from de-raining baseline model. De-rained image $$\hat X_c$$ , de-rained reference image $$\hat R_c$$ and clean reference image $$R_c$$ are input of our pipeline. Firstly, they are projected into feature space in Feature Extractor module, resulting $$P^3_{\hat X_c}$$ , $$P^3_{\hat R_c}$$ and $$P^3_{ X_c}$$. Feature Attention module will further calculate relevance between query $$P^3_{\hat X_c}$$ and key $$P^3_{\hat R_c}$$. And Output useful feature $$P$$ taking $$P_{R_c}$$ as the value according to the hard attention map $$H$$. $$P$$ and soft attention map $$S$$ are compensated to de-rained image $$\hat X _c$$ to get the pipeline output $$\hat X_c ^{out}$$ .

## Results

<div id="result_div" class='l-page'></div>
<script src='/assets/js/de-rain.js'></script>